there were banking delays there were
bureaucratic delays there were illegal
delays there was paperwork that had to
be send by email and some paperwork that
needed to be signed in blue ink and sent
in the post but then one day all the
delays are done and the lawyers get paid
the charges get laid and the world keeps
on turning to my knowledge durianrider
will now be facing three criminal
charges in a court of law just one of
those charges if he's found guilty of it
to my knowledge may be imperfect a
normal prison sentence would be one full
year and that would be one full year in
a jail in Thailand and from the accounts
that I've read prisons in Thailand are
pretty tough I've read accounts of
people who slept on the floor and he
slept on the floor with the rats people
who woke up in the morning and saw you
know baby rats with their mother living
inside their shoes people just going
crazy with the daily horror of having to
deal with the mosquitoes and the extreme
heat and not having access to a fan or
air conditioning or any of the comforts
you may be used to if you're vacationing
in Thailand at the Bangkok Hilton of
another kind
I wouldn't wish that on anybody it's
serious stuff it's no laughing matter
and you know I sympathize with those who
are trying to make this into a drama
into a comedy into entertainment on the
internet but the bottom line is people
donated money to this because they
thought it was the right thing to do
they cared about the future of veganism
they felt that veganism today needed to
have leaders who were more respectable
than what we've got and I think in terms
of the followers in veganism also I
think many of the donors were hoping
this would wake up some of the people
who were still slumbering some of the
people who were still so diluted
because I still see those videos I still
hear those voices I still hear the
voices of people who went to Chiang Mai
who were maybe in Chiang Mai at the same
time I was or in the weeks after I left
people who've managed to keep their
heads in the sand and avoid dealing with
the really difficult ethical and
political questions that were raised by
the controversy that I was an unwilling
participant in in in Chiang Mai one year
in jail is no joke
I think it's no joke if you're in the
United States or Europe but it's
definitely no joke if you're in Thailand
we've all seen durianrider boast many
times and he boasted about this in the
middle of making his threats against me
we've seen him boast many times that he
was not afraid to go to jail well he'll
get to prove that soon enough to my mind
he'll have two options he can either
stay in Thailand and face the charges
and again as I've said in this channel I
really do believe that everyone is
innocent until they're proven guilty
it's completely possible that he'll
manage to maintain his innocence that
he'll spend the time going through the
court system and in the end hope you
found not guilty it's entirely possible
stranger things have happened in a court
of law or it seems to me he'll choose to
run he'll become a fugitive within
Thailand
he'll flee that country and he'll never
be able to return to that country
because of the criminal charges pending
against him and the circumstances of his
flight and I think in many ways that
might be more devastating for him
because Thailand is become a huge part
of his identity Chiang Mai's
specifically obviously means a lot to
him it's where he feels important it's
it's the center of his world as he's
constructed
a bunch of other things I could talk
about in this video I don't know what to
tell you I don't take any joy in this I
guess I do take some small measure of
joy in just proving wrong all of the
stupid self-righteous mean-spirited
people who offered me advice on my legal
case advice that was based on their
uncritically watching videos durianrider
himself made in response to this and
let's be clear durianrider didn't just
defame me and slander me he never
stopped defaming me and slayed him he's
continued to make new videos about me
defaming me slandering me
misrepresenting what happened just a few
months ago in Chiangmai misrepresenting
what he did when he did it why he did it
and you know defaming insulting and
misrepresenting me how anyone could be
so foolish as to take his videos as a
factual description of what the
situation is now to then offer me legal
advice people like Jeff Nelson veg
source did exactly this Jeff Nelson
wrote to me these long emails telling me
about his experience in the court system
and why he thought I shouldn't start a
lawsuit he started with a civil lawsuit
in Australia dealing with durianrider
giving me all kinds of advice I never
asked for and in response to that advice
appointed him as a look it sounds to me
like you've never watched my videos on
this you've only watched what
durianrider had to say about it and you
were not paying close attention to what
I actually said about what situation is
it would not have taken a genius to
figure out from the information that I
presented that the charges were criminal
charges
this is also why the title of the video
and the fundraiser talked about sending
durianrider to jail
I'm not kill it scenes this is not about
me selling diet books this is not about
my reputation as a yoga instructor or
fitness group this is not comparable to
those earlier cases at all okay this is
a situation where a crime was committed
in Thailand and it does not take a
genius to figure out that is ultimately
the Thai authorities who will be
responsible for putting someone in jail
or deciding not to do so now the other
incredibly stupid comment that several
people including some highly educated
people someone I won't name with a very
expensive university diploma from was at
Cornell University in the US number of
people who consider themselves wise
wrote to me saying oh well if their
criminal charges that then it should be
free it shouldn't cost any money I'm
sorry I don't know what low-grade you
know detective movies you've been
watching we think that pressing criminal
charges doesn't cost any money if you
want to present evidence in a court of
law in Thailand at a minimum you have to
take that evidence and translate it from
English into tie and that translation
has to be properly notarized it has to
be legally deemed valid has to be
verified as valid I've now been to that
in more than one country even when I was
in France I had to have my own birth
certificate translated into French and
then notarized to prove that you know my
translation of my birth certificate
wasn't false or inaccurate or misleading
so they're very particular legal
processes to prepare evidence to present
to the police to present to a court in
any country when you've got a language
barrier involved beyond that you guys
all know I don't live in Thailand I'm
not a Thai citizen so if I want to have
a lawyer in Thailand take that evidence
translate it notarize it presented to
the police presented to several
different government authorities do you
think that happens for free
the combination of stupidity and
self-righteousness from all of these
very public voices that chose to
denounce me on this issue without even
listening to what I said in my own
videos about what the situation is I
don't know I guess the memory of that
will will stay with me forever I don't
know what does this mean what does this
mean for the the present and future of
veganism it's it's hard for me to say
it's amazing it's a miracle that we
raised over six thousand five hundred
dollars in I don't know less than 48
hours for this cause very very few
people lost interest in or lost their
support changed their mind about
supporting it in the months that
followed there's a window of time of a
couple of months when you could have
gotten a refund and a couple people did
maybe three people I forget the exact
number but very very few people asked
for their money back and those who did
ask receives it now it's too late
money's already been spent it's already
gone on to the lawyers and so on
transaction is in the past tense
you know this very clearly showed that
there is you know significant minority
within veganism who looked at this
disaster who looked at the ethical
issues involved and said we can do
better than this we should be better
than this how are we gonna get there and
I hope this is a positive part hope this
is a positive step towards all of us
getting there but of course I have
misgivings about of course I have doubts
of course I mean you know I hope that
people were not just donating money out
of a mean-spirited thirst for drama I
hope they weren't donating money just
stead of wanting to see somebody suffer
probably hopefully something more
properly it's it's a little bit of
mean-spirited you know haha they're
probably some negative impulses there
too behind the donations and people
sportiveness
when I talked to one of the mainstream
journalists about this have been
interviewed
one of the things I said was look you
know if this was happening within a
communist movement or within a
right-wing movement or something you
wouldn't even be having this
conversation with me you just said well
you know they're a bunch of crazy left
wingers or they're a bunch of crazy
right-wingers sometimes they threatened
to beat each other up
who knows sometimes there are these
kinds of struggles for ego or leadership
what have you it's the fact that this
went on within a movement that's devoted
to not even killing mosquitoes in some
people's interpretation a movement that
much more prominently he's devoted to
saving the lives of snails and scorpions
of you know refusing to hurt a fly
it's that mixed message of non-violence
compassion saving the planet caring love
etc it's the contrast between that and
the hyper fragile hyper egoistic beauty
weight loss you know the banality and
brutality of of the message that was
mixed up with threats of violence on the
other side you know that's that's what
makes it tragic comic you know there's
so much potential here I mean you know
obviously I see this whole thing as you
know these people flying the Thailand
and they might as well be in Hawaii they
just have no meaningful contact with
with what Thailand is or what it's about
you know has lost potential in so many
ways but obviously you have a mix of
artistic people athletic people
intellectual people political people you
have this common ground of this you know
profound and frightening challenge for
the 21st century of ecology animal
rights leading a meaningful life you
know in a world where literally that the
North Pole is melting the clock is
ticking for all of us
sort of apocalyptic you know fever
you know gradually creeping around the
world and awareness of the seriousness
the ecological issues facing us and in
another sense there's a there's a very
different way in which people wake up to
the seriousness of the ethical issues
facing us and the contrast to that is
get thin get beautiful get famous on the
internet make money from your Instagram
from putting on a bikini hyper shallow
hyper fragile and then this whole
business of defamation and violence you
know it's a strange cocktail and like I
say if this had happened in a left-wing
movement or a right-wing movement I
think people would just shrug their
shoulders and say what did you expect
but this is an opportunity for all of us
in veganism leaders and followers you
know cooking show enthusiasts and street
activists everyone every every strip
this is an opportunity for all of us to
look in the mirror and say what did we
expect can't we expect better shouldn't
we demand better and how are we gonna
get from here to there and yeah it's
that you know there's no joy of my heart
to say it but this never was a scam this
was an entirely sincere legal process
and if anything it's somewhat scary for
me to think that one day I might be
visiting durianrider when he's in jail